---
title:  "August 17"
date:   2024-08-17
tags:   [daily]
---

Today I'm going through the CSES CP book.

I started with C++ data types and continued till `typedef` & `macros`. It also covered `modulo` operator & `float` behaviour.

After that, the chapter covered the essential math required for the CP, like sum of N natural numbers, arithmetic progression, geomertric progression, logarithms, logic, sets, etc. It was definitely interesting to read and think about all those things.

Then the I've started reading the `Time Complexity` chapter where it covered the basics of it and a few example notations generally used. Then I've explored the problem demonstration for time complexity - `Maximum subarray sum` problem. They've covered 3 algorithms of different time complexity and explained how they differ. It was interesting.

Now I've started reading the `Sorting` chapter. Should I try the given example problem myself? I think no need because that is already solved. It'll essentially a rewrite. So no.

I'll try the sort theory parts in code so that I'll get some understanding. That'll also make my understanding more clear.

Once this chapter is over I'll review what I've learned so far and try to solve few problems in LeetCode or NeetCode. After that I'll proceed.

Okay. I got distracted and solved a couple of problems in leet code just to implement `merge sort` and `counting sort`. I've put the code [here](https://github.com/Maheshkumar-novice/LeetCode).

I'll review the sorting chapter once again and try to implement the sort algos in C++ and then I'll move on to the next thing in the chapter.

Couldn't get the hands on `scrapy` today. I'll try put some time on it next time. Want to do something with `defcord` also but couldn't get enough time. Let's see.

That's all for today.
