---
title:  "August 21"
date:   2024-08-21
tags:   [daily]
---

Today, I'm reading cpu.land blog about how computers run the program. I'm re-reading it actually. That is going good so far. In the previous read, I couldn't grasp a few things. It could be because I don't know much and I've read it on phone so I couldn't explore much.

This time I've already explored few things with the question like how `ls` works. Thanks to GPT, it helped a lot in my quest.

Essentially, when we type `ls` in terminal and press `enter`,

* shell parses the command
* finds the binary
* uses syscall to interact with kernel to create a child process
* child process replaces itself with the loaded binary program
* then `ls` runs and uses syscalls to get the necessary data and other ops
* it prints to the terminal
* it exits
* control comes back to the shell
* we got the shell prompt again
* voila!

In my quest I used tools like `otool`, `lldb` (I guess) to mess up with things. I've also found a nice reverse engineering guide from a github.io website that I've linked in my `LIIL` page.

So many things, software interrupts, hardware interrupts, userland, kernel, registers, mmu, virtual memory, paging, security rings, there is a lot of interesting things.

Now back to reading THE BOOK!

I've read about C++ based sorting techniques that are appropriate for `pairs`, `tuples`, & `structs`. And the way to use custom callback functions.

I've also learned about `auto` iteration and `structs`, `pairs` & `tuples`. I've skimmed through the binary search part. I'll go through with full attention tomorrow. Once I did it, I'll review my progress and fill in the knowlege gaps before moving on to the next chapter.

Stored the learnings at: https://github.com/Maheshkumar-novice/TIL/blob/main/cpp/sorting.cpp
