---
title:  "September 11"
date:   2024-09-11
tags:   [daily]
---

Time flies. It's been quite a few days since I last wrote my check in. I could say few reasons but I could have written so that's on me.

I've a severe back pain now. But I still want to finish this.

I couldn't read THE BOOK for the past ~2 weeks. I should resume sometime. But I got few things going so I'll finish those first and come back to it soon.

I've explored `ollama` and `zed` little bit. I tried running `llama3.1` small model in my local system. I wanted to do this for a long time. A model in my machine!

It didn't disappoint me. I liked it. With `ollama` I ran into one gpu related issue and a reboot resolved it. In search of that I found tools to monitor gpu status like `gpustat` and `nvtop`.
`btop` also has support but I couldn't figure it out.

I've explored `zed` at a minimal level, it feels very lightweight and I also could see their `GPU` utilization in action. Also I've explored their `assistant` mode with `ollama` and it was great!
I could create my own prompts and store it for future use. I can have multiple contexts going on in parallel. I could select various model options, etc. But still it is very young and needs more features to be more like VS code.

I've got a few things to store in my `LIIL` that I'll do sometime later. Puttting it here so I'll remember hopefully. 

I'm using `uv` for a few projects and the experience is very nice. It works very smoothly and it is very fast compared to my default old requirements flow.

That's it for now then. Forgive me for my typos if any and phrasing issue. I'm half asleep. Until next time!
